

Electronic money (E-money).
    isa: electronic store of monetary value on a technical device.
    usedTo: make payments to entities other than the e-money issuer.



Electronic Money Institution (EMI).
    isa: supplier of the financial product ‘electronic money’.
    approvedBy: an NCA. Approval is a regulatory requirement.
    usedTo: make payments to parties other than the issuer.
    purpose: monetary value stored on an electronic carrier or remotely in a central accounting system.


Financial Institution (FI)
    isa: generic term.
    refersTo: banks, credit unions, building societies, EMIs and Payment Institutions.



Payment Service Provider (PSP)
    An entity which carries out regulated payment services.
    subtypes: AISP, PISP, CBPII, ASPSP, TPP


Types of PSPs
    Account Information Service Provider (AISP).
    PISP
    CBPII
    ASPSP
    TPP


Payment Services User (PSU)
    isa: natural or legal person making use of a payment service as a payee, payer or both.
    role: payee, payer.



Third Party Provider (TPP)
    isa: PSP
    isa: Account Information Service Provider (AISPs).
    isa: Payment Initiation Service Provider (PISP).
        make-payments, receive-payments, user financial transaction data.
    purpose: provide account information services and/or to initiate payments.
    needsAccessTo: customer's accounts.
    Benifit from the new card-based offerings.



Account Information Service Provider (AISP)
    isa: TPP
    isa: PSP
    responsibility: A TPP that aggregates online account information of one or more accounts held at one or more ASPSPs (FIs).
    service:
        AISP can only access account information.
        AISPs may perform account management or generate dashboards for a PSU.
        AISPs access account information for the purposes of analysis and aggregation.
        AISPs access information stored with account-keeping financial institutions on behalf of a customer
    Use case:
        Check creditworthiness as part of an online loan application.
        Infer customer spending patterns
        Calculate expenses
        Predict and/or determine customer's financial needs.



Payment Initiation Service Provider (PISP)
    isa: TPP
    service:
        Payment Initiation Service (PIS).
        initiate payments on behalf of customers.
        The customer NEED NOT directly access their account or use a debit or credit card.
        PISP trigger real transactions in an online banking account and debit a customer’s account.
        A PISP initiates a credit transaction on behalf of a customer.
    Note:
        Unlike banks, which manage their customers’ money, PISPs only trigger transactions.
        PISPs never actually receive a customer’s money.
        PISPs must ensure that third parties cannot access customer's account information.



Consent for Confirmation of Funds (CoF)


Card-Based Payment Instrument Issuer - CBPII
    isa: Payment Service Provider (PSP)
    use case: PSU uses the card-based payment instrument to initiate a payment transaction.
    actors: PSU, ASPSP.
    precondition: ASPSP is the holder of PSU's accounts.
    service: CBPII is entitled to request a confirmation from the PSUs ASPSP to which the account is linked, to confirm whether there are sufficient funds available for the transaction amount.

    Open Banking API specifications support CoF services for Card Based Payment Instrument Issuers (CBPIIs).
    The PSU initiates a payment transaction with the payment instrument for the amount in question.
    These services allow PSUs to provide explicit consent to an ASPSP.
    ASPSP runs an authentication flow with the PSU indicating the transaction with CBPII.
    The PSU MUST provide their explicit consent to the CBPII.
    ASPSPs respond to confirmation of fund-requests from CBPIIs, with a "Y/N".
    CBPIIs can subsequently submit confirmation of funds requests to the ASPSP.

    https://standards.openbanking.org.uk/customer-experience-guidelines/cbpii-core-journeys/consent-for-confirmation-of-funds/latest/



A card based instrument
    Use case: PSU uses the card-based payment instrument to initiate a payment transaction
    precondition: accounts are accessible online.
    purpose: linked to an account or accounts held at one or more different ASPSPs.



Account Servicing Payment Service Provider (ASPSP)
    isa: FI that offers a payment account with online access.
    examples: Banks, Building Socities, Cooperative Socities, Credit Unions, Payment Companies,...
    service:
        maintain a payment account for a payer.
        publish Read/Write APIs to permit, with customer consent, payments initiated by third party providers.
        make their customers’ account transaction data available to third party providers via their API end points.



Building Socities are different from banks. They are not for profit cooperative groups owned by their members.
Credit Unions are formed by large corporations, organizations, and other entities for their employee and members.
Credit Unions are NOT for profit entreprises owned by their members.
Credit Unions are FIs that provide traditional banking services.





