All about tokens in OAuth 2.0

A token may be encoded as
    an opaque sequence of bytes (sometimes referred to as a 'Handle').
    a structured unit of information.
        JWT
            Unsecured.
            Signed.
            Encrypted.
            Signed and Encrypted.
            Nested
        SAML

Depending upon the context and purpose of its use, a token falls into
one of the following groups:
    Access Token.
        Client uses authorization grant to obtain an access token.
    Initial Access Token.
        RFC 7592. OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Registation Management.
    Registration Access Token.
        RFC 7592. OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Registation Management.
        A bearer token
    Refresh Token.
    Identity Token.
    Security Token potentially issued by some STS.
        Client Authentication Token
        Client Authorization Token

    JWT is a string representing a set of claims as a JSON object.
    The string is encoded in a JWS or JWE, enabling the claims to
    be digitally signed or MACed and/or encrypted.

    JWT Claims Set is a JSON object that contains the claims conveyed
    by the JWT.

    A Claim is a piece of information asserted about a subject.
    A claim is represented as a name/value pair consisting of a
    Claim Name and a Claim Value.

Token
    JWT Bearer Token grant type.
        urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer
    RFC 7523 - JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0
            Client Authentication and Authorization Grants.
        This specification defines the use of a JSON Web Token (JWT) Bearer
        Token as a means for requesting an OAuth 2.0 access token as well as
        for client authentication.

JSON Web Token (JWT) is a JSON-based [RFC7159] security token
   encoding that enables identity and security information to be shared
   across security domains.
   A security token is generally issued by an
   Identity Provider and consumed by a Relying Party that relies on its
   content to identify the token's subject for security-related
   purposes.

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/STS/latest/APIReference/API_Credentials.html
AWS credentials for API authentication.
String AccessKeyId
    The access key ID that identifies the temporary security
    credentials.
    Minimum length of 16. Maximum length of 128.
Timestamp Expiration
String SecretAccessKey
    The secret access key that can be used to sign requests.
String SessionToken
    The token that users must pass to the service API to use
    the temporary credentials.
