SAML Assertions and Claims.

In general, an Assertion is a collection of Statements made by an Authority.
    SAML authorities are sometimes called Asserting Parties
    especially in the context of assertion generation and exchange.
    OIDC Identity Provider is conceptually an Asserting Party.
System entities that use/consume received assertions are known as
Relying Parties (RP).
    OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server (AS) may act as a RP when it
    communicates with an STS.

Assertions are usually made about a Subject, which is represented
by the <Subject> element in SAML or the 'sub' field in OAuth 2.0 JWT.

In OAuth 2.0, Security Token is an Assertion.
An Identity Provider (IdP) gives out Security Tokens.

SAML Authority asserts security information in the form of Statements
about a subject.
    For instance, a SAML assertion could state that the subject
    is named “John Doe”, has an email address of john.doe@example.com, and
    is a member of the “engineering” group.

An assertion contains some basic required and optional information that
applies to all its statements, and usually contains
    a subject identifier,
        if subject is not mentioned, the identity is determined through
        other means, e.g. the certificate used for subject confirmation,
    conditions used to validate the assertion, and
    assertion statements.

SAML defines three kinds of statements packaged within an assertion:
    Authentication statements
        These are created by the party that successfully authenticated
        a user. At a minimum, they describe the particular means used
        to authenticate the user and the specific time at which the
        authentication took place.
        A password-protected transport mechanism (e.g. entering a username
        and password submitted over an SSL-protected browser session)
    Attribute statements
        These contain specific identifying attributes about the subject
        (for example, that user “John Doe” has “Gold” card status).
    Authorization decision statements
        These define something that the subject is entitled to do
        (for example, whether “John Doe” is permitted to access a
            specified resource).

The SAML Identity Model is a claims-based authorization system.
Claims describe the capabilities associated with some entity in the
system, often a user of that system. The set of claims associated with
a given entity can be thought of as a key.

Claims are used to gain access to resources. Access to a given
protected resource is determined by comparing the claims required
to access that resource with the claims associated with the entity
that attempts access.

SAML Claim expresses the Right over a Resource. The claim type may be an
API Product, resource may be an API and Right may be AllowCall.
